# Link:
- [15-3Sum](https://leetcode.com/problems/3sum/description/)

# Intuition

**Example:**

Input: `nums = [-1, 0, 1, 2, -1, -4]`

Output: `[[-1, -1, 2], [-1, 0, 1]]`

**Explanation:**

`nums[0] + nums[1] + nums[2] = (-1) + 0 + 1 = 0.`

`nums[1] + nums[2] + nums[4] = 0 + 1 + (-1) = 0.`

`nums[0] + nums[3] + nums[4] = (-1) + 2 + (-1) = 0.`

The distinct triplets are `[-1, 0, 1]` and `[-1, -1, 2]`.

Notice that the order of the output and the order of the triplets do not matter.

First of all, we should keep in mind that the solution set must not contain duplicate triplets. Consider this example `[-3, 3, 4, -3, 1, 2]`, and we need to find `_+_+_ = 0`. If we first look at index 0, then it will fill out -3(index[0]) + 1 + 2 = 0. However, when we go to index 3, it still has the same combination, which is -3(index[3]) + 1 + 2 = 0. Then it is a duplicate. So we could sort the array first to deal with it. In this case, it will be sorted to `[-3, -3, 1, 2, 3, 4]`, and when we encounter the second -3, we can just skip it.

For `_+_+_ = 0`, when we pick the first element, then we will need to find the rest two elements in the rest sorted array that sum up to the value of -first element. It then converts to a two-sum question, similar to the question 167-Two-Sum-II-Input-Array-Is-Sorted, which is finding two sums in a sorted array. In this example, the sorted array will become `[-4, -1, -1, 0, 1, 2]`, and we should loop through this entire array and find -4 + [-1, -1, 0, 1, 2] = 0, then -1 + [-1, 0, 1, 2] = 0, then skip the second -1, and then 0 + [1, 2] = 0, etc.

When we loop through the entire array, we should also add some base cases. If `nums[i] > 0`, then we break, since the array is in increasing order. If `nums[i] == nums[i-1]`, we should continue the loop, since the answer will duplicate if we don't do this operation. Consider `[-1, -1, 0, 1, 2]`. For the first -1, it will have `[-1, -1, 2]` and `[-1, 0, 1]`. For the second -1, it will also have `[-1, 0, 1]`, which repeats the answer. Since the first -1's rest array contains the second -1's rest array.

Then we can deal with the problem. Make two pointers point to the start and the end of the rest array: the left pointer to be `i + 1` and the right pointer be the end position of the array. If these three values are less than 0, then move `l` to the right. If these three values are greater than 0, then move `r` to the left. Else, we can just append these three values to the result. After that, we should increase the left pointer and decrease the right pointer since the array will not just contain exactly one solution. However, to avoid duplicate solutions, we also need to do an extra step. Consider `-1[0, 0, 0, 1, 1]`. If left+1, we move to the second 0 and the first 1. Then, since the second 0 is the same value as the first 0, we could not treat it as an additional solution. We should keep moving the left pointer to the right and not greater than the right pointer. Finally, the left pointer will be at the first 1, the same position as the right pointer, and it will not go to the while `l < r` loop, and the result will not append it.

# Approach

1. Sort the array.
2. Loop through the sorted array, and for each index, make the rest elements the two-sum problem.
3. Avoid duplicate solutions by checking if `nums[l] == nums[l-1]` when dealing with the two-sum problem and checking if `nums[i] == nums[i-1]` when we choose the base value.
4. Finally, return the result.
# Complexity
- Time complexity:
  $$O(n^2)$$
  - Sorting the array takes $O(n \log n)$, and the two-pointer approach within the loop takes $O(n^2)$, leading to an overall time complexity of $O(n^2)$.

- Space complexity:
  $$O(n)$$
  - The space complexity is $O(1)$ if we do not consider the space used to store the output. Sorting is done in-place, and only a constant amount of extra space is used.

# Code
```python
class Solution(object):
    def threeSum(self, nums):
        """
        :type nums: List[int]
        :rtype: List[List[int]]
        """
        nums.sort()
        result = []
        for i in range(len(nums)):
            if nums[i] > 0:
                break
            if i > 0 and nums[i] == nums[i-1]:
                continue
            l = i + 1
            r = len(nums) - 1
            while l < r:
                total = nums[i] + nums[l] + nums[r]
                if total < 0:
                    l += 1
                elif total > 0:
                    r -= 1
                else:
                    result.append([nums[i], nums[l], nums[r]])
                    l += 1
                    r -= 1
                    while l < r and nums[l] == nums[l-1]:
                        l += 1
        return result
```
